In this course you will learn xDiSUENSo1lX1JOwA5mBdnO0tPGByisuRgCGts18pFvA
Unit 1: Introduction to Cyber Security

Overview of Cyber Security, Internet Governance – Challenges and Constraints, Cyber Threats:- Cyber Warfare-Cyber Crime-Cyber terrorism-Cyber Espionage, Need for a Comprehensive Cyber Security Policy, Need for a Nodal Authority, Need for an International convention on Cyberspace.



Unit 2: Cyber Security Vulnerabilities and Cyber Security Safeguards

Cyber Security Vulnerabilities-Overview, vulnerabilities in software, System administration, Complex Network Architectures, Open Access to Organizational Data, Weak Authentication, Unprotected Broadband communications, Poor Cyber Security Awareness. Cyber Security Safeguards- Overview, Access control, Audit, Authentication, Biometrics, Cryptography, Deception, Denial of Service Filters, Ethical Hacking, Firewalls, Intrusion Detection Systems, Response, Scanning, Security policy, Threat Management.



Unit 3: Securing Web Application, Services and Servers

Introduction, Basic security for HTTP Applications and Services, Basic Security for SOAP Services, Identity Management and Web Services, Authorization Patterns, Security Considerations, Challenges.



Unit 4: Intrusion Detection and Prevention

Intrusion, Physical Theft, Abuse of Privileges, Unauthorized Access by Outsider, Malware infection, Intrusion detection and Prevention Techniques, Anti-Malware software, Network based Intrusion detection Systems, Network based Intrusion Prevention Systems, Host based Intrusion prevention Systems, Security Information Management, Network Session Analysis, System Integrity Validation.



Unit 5: Cryptography and Network Security

Introduction to Cryptography, Symmetric key Cryptography, Asymmetric key Cryptography, Message Authentication, Digital Signatures, Applications of Cryptography. Overview of Firewalls- Types of Firewalls, User Management, VPN Security Security Protocols: - security at the Application Layer- PGP and S/MIME, Security at Transport Layer- SSL and TLS, Security at Network Layer-IPSec.



Unit 6: Cyberspace and the Law

Introduction, Cyber Security Regulations, Roles of International Law, the state and Private Sector in Cyberspace, Cyber Security Standards. The INDIAN Cyberspace, National Cyber Security Policy 2013.



Unit 7: Cyber Forensics

Introduction to Cyber Forensics, Handling Preliminary Investigations, Controlling an Investigation, Conducting disk-based analysis, Investigating Information-hiding, Scrutinizing E-mail, Validating E-mail header information, Tracing Internet access, Tracing memory in real-time.
